---
layout: post
title: 'Break of Dawne: Excerpt #5'
date: 2023-06-13 08:00 +0000
permalink: /break-of-dawne/excerpts/five
---

## Hope

_Hope and Joye find themselves in captivity with their ankles bound with manacles._

“Joye! I have an idea for a spell we could use to break our chains. It’s a variation of the spell I use to fix rips and tears. If I can reverse the magical current of the spell, I think I can split the chains instead!”

My hands shake as if the magic inside me itself likes the idea. Is that possible? Can magic get excited? Does it have a personality? Is that why there are so many different spells? Every spell could be its own living thing, just waiting for its opportunity to come into the world and make a difference.

Joye squints and tilts her head. “I don’t think your magic works like that. You fix things, remember?”

“Yeah, but what if the correct state of the chains is that they’re broken?” Joye raises a brow. “Chains aren’t meant to restrain us — they’re meant to protect us — so by breaking them, I’d actually be fixing the world in a small way. I know that sounds crazy to you because your magic is logical and follows rules and stuff, but my magic doesn’t work like that. I just feel what I want to happen and it happens, and I’ve got a good feeling about this. Trust me.”

She turns and looks at me with a smile. She puts her hands on my cheeks and kisses my forehead. “If there’s one thing in this world I can count on, Hope, it’s you. I trust you with my life.”

I hobble forward, chains clinking, and wrap my arms around her. I won’t let you down, sis.

_To Be Continued..._

Previous Post in this series: [Break of Dawne: Excerpt #4](/break-of-dawne/excerpts/four)

---

{% include feedback.md %}

---

{% include email_signup.html %}
