---
layout: post
title: 'Break of Dawne: Chapter 2'
date: 2023-10-31 08:00 +0000
permalink: /break-of-dawne/chapters/2
---

I raise my fists toward the pile of rubble, thumbs to the side in standard earth-form. I move my right hand in a circle parallel to the ground as I pull my left fist back by my shoulder. I feel the floorboards rumble beneath my soggy shoes as a magical current flows up from the ground through my feet and builds in my fists.

I can shoot fire bolts on a whim, but earth-forms require patience and tension. _The earth does not like to be moved._ Or so the kata scrolls say… I'm not as well-versed in earth-forms on account of them usually being boring. Unfortunately, this debris is too big for my simple fire bolts to take care of, and even if it were smaller, the rain pouring in from the hole in the roof would put a damper on any fire-form.

My right arm struggles to form circles now. My left hand shakes a few inches from my face. I won't be able to build this much more, and I need to conserve my energy in case we run into any more problems.

I hold my right fist in place as I take a step with my left foot and throw my left fist forward. It travels like a rock from a sling, propelled by the tension of the magical current I pooled in my body. Floorboards creek and bend in quick succession as a shockwave travels from me to the rubble.

_Boom!_

_Snap!_

The center of the large support beam shatters, sending chips of wood and other shrapnel flying down the hallway.

“Let's go!” I shout.

I step back to grab Hope's hand and pull her through the downpour and into the dry hallway where the beam used to be. I see the top of the cellar door at the end of the hallway. I glance into my room and see wood chips mixed with paint splattered all over the floor. A wave of frustration runs down my spine until the chill of my wet clothes reminds me I have bigger problems than a little spilled paint right now.

I lead Hope toward the cellar, careful to avoid the debris of the shattered beam. As we reach the door, I hear a loud roar, like living thunder, rumble over the house. Hope lets out a weak yelp before clutching my leg. I put my left hand on her shoulder and reach for the cellar door with my right.

Just before I grab the handle, a thin purple tendril slips through the crack of the door and coils around my wrist. I stumble back, tripping on Hope and knocking us both to the floor. The coil pulls my arm as a dark purple blob twice my size bursts through the cellar door. The air wreaks of sour milk and rotten eggs. The coil feels like ice on my wrist but stings like acid.

Hope screams as her eyes and horns glow white. A translucent white barrier emanates from outstretched hands, pushing the sludgy blob back toward the cellar. I take the opportunity to use my free left hand to create a fire bolt and zap the coil around my right wrist. It severs the end of the tendril which drops to the floor. The blob slams against Hope's barrier, leaving a few cracks.

“Hope! Hold it just a little longer.” I plant my feet and begin the movements for a fire pulse, a heavier fire-form than the bolts I've been using.

“What is that thing?! It's disgusting!” Hope grimaces as she stands up and braces for another slam from the blob.

I need to focus. Fire-forms require precision. I can't let the circumstances distract me. I must—

_Crash!_

The blob's second slam breaks through Hope's barrier.

She screams.

No time for a slow, heavy fire-form. I interpose myself between her and the blob, unleashing a few fire bolts on the sludgy creature. Thin purple smoke rises from two new holes in the blob. It rears back and unleashes a gurgly shriek. Two more tendrils dart toward my feet. I manage to zap one with a fire bolt, but the other grabs my ankle and pulls my foot out from under me, knocking me prone.

From my new perspective on the floor, I see Hope's open palms swirl in a light-form, her eyes burning with a bright white light that nearly blinds me. She completes the form by bringing her outstretched arms down with palms facing the blob. A wide column of light that matches her eyes descends on the blob, burning it with a loud sizzle. Dark purple smoke fills the air.

The coil around my ankle loosens as the foul creature slinks back into the cellar, its tendrils closing the cellar door behind it. I rise to my hands and knees, avoiding the smoke overhead. When I turn around, I see Hope unconscious on the floor. She must have pushed herself to her limit. I’ve only seen her this way once before. If only I’d acted faster, she wouldn’t have needed to do that!

I scoop one arm around her body and drag her back to my room, slamming the door and bolting the latch behind me. It won’t be safe for long, but at least I can take a second to think. I sit with my back to the door, holding Hope close and stroking her cheek with my thumb.

What was that thing? And how did it get into the cellar? I was just there! All of my kata scrolls are down there, too. I take a deep breath and let out a sigh of frustration. It's no use worrying about that now; we have to get out of here and find the rest of our family.

I gaze out my bedroom window and see a figure crest the hill that leads to the nearby forest. The thick rain distorts my view, but even through the haze I see two distinct curled horns and a dark gray face under a hooded cloak.

Sorrowe.

----

Next Post in this series: [Break of Dawne: Chapter 3](/break-of-dawne/chapters/3)

Previous post in this series: [Break of Dawne: Chapter 1](/break-of-dawne/chapters/1)

---

{% include feedback.md %}

---

{% include email_signup.html %}
